## MyVT-Overview
My Verilog Template (MyVT) is a project designed to bring the power of Verilog scripting to the open-source hardware community. This tool simplifies the generation of Verilog modules or snippets by seamlessly integrating with other programs. The generated files can be easily included in any Verilog project.

With MyVT, the process of calling programs or scripts responsible for generating Verilog files is streamlined. After file generation, MyVT neatly organizes all Hardware Description Languages (HDL) and TestBench files under the build directory.

Learn more about how MyVT works [here](#how-to-use-myvt).

### Index
1. [How to use MyVT (VTBuild.py)](#how-to-use-myvt)
2. [VTColors.py](#vtcolors)
3. [MyLibrary](#mylibrary)
4. [Opening Issues](#opening-an-issue)
5. [Contributing](#contributing)
6. [Development Environment](#development-environment)
7. [Credits](#credits)


## How to use MyVT (aka, VTBuild)
The **VTBuild** script serves as the cornerstone of MyVT-Tool, encompassing core functions essential for project compilation. This script orchestrates the creation of the build directory, housing Verilog modules and headers crucial for the project's hardware implementation.  
The code residing under the `./build` directory represents the compiled output ready for simulation and FPGA synthesis. 

### Run VTBuild.py
**VTBuild** must receive at least one argument.  
To show the help page: 
> Usage: python VTBuild.py --help

Create a build directory containing all the compiled hardware:
> Usage: python VTBuild.py <main_module> --TestBench <testbench_name> --Boards <board_modules>  
  <main_module> -> This is the name of the main RTL design.  
  --TestBench <testbench_name> (optional) -> by default VTBuild looks for a TestBench file with the name <main_module>_tb.  
  --Boards <board_modules> (optional) -> by default VTBuild looks for NO board RTL design top module. Multiple boards can be passed in a single argument (example, "Board1 Board2 Board3").  
  --quiet (optional) -> suppresses INFO prints.  
  --debug (optional) -> enables DEBUG prints.

Clean the contents generated by VTBuild:
> Usage: python VTBuild.py --clean all
  all (optional) -> By default "--clean" only removes the "build" directory, with "all" it also removes the "hardware/generated" directory.

Example of calling **VTBuild**:  
`python3 ./VTBuild top_module --TestBench top_module_tb --Boards "top_module_ecp5"`
or  
`./VTBuild --help`


### Using Verilog Snippets (.vs)
To enable MyVT to search for or generate a Verilog Snippet, users only need to include the corresponding ".vs" file in their Verilog modules. For example:
```
module example (
  `include "example_ios.vs" // Argument passed to the program/script that generates example_ios.vs
);
  `include "example_contents.vs" /*
    Argument passed to the program/script that generates example_contents.vs
  */
endmodule
```
In the above example, MyVT scans for a program or script resembling the Verilog Snippet name (without the file extension). Snippet files must adhere to the snake_case naming convention, which MyVT uses to identify the program/script generating the Snippet file. For instance, the `include "example_ios.vs"` statement corresponds to a program/script named either "example_ios.\*" or "example.\*", where \* represents any supported file extension. Similarly, `include "example_contents.vs"` corresponds to "example_contents.\*" or "example.\*".

For another example, refer to the [MyReg module](MyLibrary/modules/MyReg.v). You can run `python3 VTBuild myreg` to execute a small build with MyVT.

**Note:** Avoid including a file in the first line of the file, as this is not supported. Instead, use the file's beginning to provide a brief introduction about its contents.

### Creating a Compatible Program/Script for Verilog Snippet Generation
Users have the flexibility to create custom programs or scripts for generating ".vs" files or Verilog modules, or they can utilize existing ones. It's crucial to note that all scripts responsible for generating Verilog code, whether modules or ".vs" files, are independent of "VTBuild." "VTBuild" exclusively calls these scripts without importing them into the project.

**Supported File Extensions and Corresponding Languages:**  
Currently, MyVT supports programs and scripts with the following file extensions:
- ".py" for Python
- ".sh" for Bash
- ".lua" for Lua
- ".scala" for Scala
- ".rb" for Ruby
- ".pl" for Perl
- ".vt" for Verilog Template (a custom extension)

The Verilog Template extension (".vt") is specific to MyVT. If you compile a program that generates a Verilog module or snippet, you can use the ".vt" extension to enable MyVT to locate it.

When VTBuild calls another program ([see example here](VTBuild.py#L238)), it passes a variable number of arguments. Nevertheless, it always follows the same order. Therefore, take into consideration the following arguments and their order when developing your program or script:
- Path to the program or script being called
- Difference between the ".vs" filename and the program/script name. It corresponds to the suffix of the program/script name
- Comment written after the "\`include"
- File where the include is being called from, therefore the file where the "\`include" is written
- VTBuild received arguments (excluding its own name)

### Code structure
**VTBuild** code is distinctly divided into three stages.  
- in **1st stage** the function `find_vs_scripts_and_verilog()` finds all existing verilog modules, headers, snippets and scripts under the current directory.
- the **2nd stage** is where it finds the verilog modules and snippets needed by the core. If a verilog module or a snippet does not exist it will try to generate them. The generated snippets should be stored under the `./rtl/generated` directory. The function called for this stage is `verilog_fetch()`.
- during the **3rd stage** all verilog snippet files included are substituted for its content. Those files are then stored under the `./build` directory.

#### **2nd stage** - details
- When calling scripts to generate ".vs" priority is always given to scripts with the full name of the file. If there is no script curresponding to the ".vs" name look for a script that currsponds only to the inicial part of the name. Example:
	- in `include "io_modules.vs"` look for `VTio.py` or `io.py` if `io_modules.py` does not exist.
- When calling scripts that generate modules the script should have the name of the module.
- "VTBuild" only calls the scripts if they are newer then the files already existent.
- When there are two or more scripts with the same name a warning should be printed and the script with the closest directory path should be used. 
- All files and scripts should only be looked for from the base directory of the project, unless specified otherwise in a custom script.

#### **3rd stage** - details
- all files which are generated should have a copy in the "aux" directory
- "VTBuild" substitutes the ".vs" and copies the modules needed to the build directory, after finding or generating all modules and ".vs" files.

## VTColors
This script defines the colors that should be used when printing error, warning or successful messages.  
It defines the `print_coloured()` function and some variables that allow to modify the text printed to the console.

## MyLibrary
The "MyLibrary" directory contains hardware Verilog modules, snippets and scripts that might be commonly reused.

### Scripts
This section of the README contains information about the scripts present under the `./library/scripts` directory.  
Read more about each script in the [README.md on the scripts directory](https://github.com/PedroAntunes178/MyVT-Tool/tree/main/MyLibrary/scripts/README.md).


## Opening an Issue

Welcome to our issue reporting system! We appreciate your contribution to the project by reporting any issues you encounter. Your feedback helps us make this project even better.

### How to Open an Issue

When opening an issue, please follow this format:

> **Issue Title**: A concise and descriptive title for the issue.

> Hello **Tag the developers you think might be able to help**,
> 
> ## Issue Description:  
> Provide a detailed description of the issue you encountered. Include information about your environment, steps to reproduce the issue, and any error messages. The more details you provide, the easier it is for us to understand and address the problem.
> 
> ## Solution Reference (Optional):  
> If you have a solution in mind, you're welcome to present it and provide a detailed explanation of why you believe it will work. If possible, include references to supporting pages or documentation that back your proposed solution. This can help us better understand your perspective and expedite the resolution process.
> 
> ## Suggested Changes (Optional):  
> If you have ideas for changes that might solve the issue, propose them here. Be clear and concise in your suggestions.
> 
> ## Additional Question (Optional):  
> If you have questions directly or indirectly related to the issue, feel free to ask them in this section.

Tag developers by using `@username` to get their attention.

We appreciate your help in improving this project!

## Contributing
All contributions to this project are warmly welcomed.

Contributions in the form of automatically generated Verilog scripts should be placed within the hardware/scripts directory. Additionally, contributors are required to create a corresponding section in the README when adding a script. This section should detail the generated core and provide instructions on the script's usage. It is important that the section structure aligns with the structures of other script sections.

## Development Environment
To utilize VTBuild, all that's necessary is Python3 and support for the scripting languages in which your scripts are written.

## Credits
This project idea came to me while I was working at IObundle. IObundle was developing a similar open-source tool called python-setup. 

The two projects are fundamentally different. Therefore I decided to create this project from 0 instead of contributing the ideas and tools directly to IObundle's python-setup.

Where the two projects are similar is both are being developed to generate automatic verilog. 

Where they mainly differ is on the way the verilog is generated. The IObundle python-setup project aims to generate all the verilog core using a python framework. MyVerilogTemplate aims to substitute the .vs files present on the verilog code. Generating the .vs code as needed. There may also exist scripts that generate .v modules.
